# Contribution Guide

If you are interested in contributing, your contributions will likely fall into one of the following two categories:

1. **New Feature:** In general, any features are accepted as long as they fit the scope of this package. If you are unsure about this or need help on the design/implementation of your feature, post about it in an issue.
2. **Bug Fix:** Feel free to send a Pull Request (PR) any time you encounter a bug. Please provide a clear and concise description of what the bug was. If you are unsure about if this is a bug at all or how to fix, post about it in an issue.

Once you finish implementing a feature or bug-fix, please open a Pull Request and it will be merged after a round of review.

---

## Setting up your environment.

1. **Create a Virtual Environment:** To ensure your sanity I'd recommend working with virtual environments. You can choose from `virtualenv`, `venv`, `conda` among others. To setup a virtual environment using `venv` run the following command:

   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   . venv/bin/activate
   ```

> Make sure to use python version `>=3.8` as JAX is only supports `3.8` and higher.
2. **Install Dependencies:** There is a Makefile in the root of this repository. Simply run `make requirements` to update to latest versions of `pip`, `setuptools` and `wheel`; Install all packages mentioned in `requirements.txt` and install `pre-commit` hooks.

3. **Make Changes:** Make your desired changes and commit using clear and concise commit messages. `pre-commit` will run a bunch of checks to ensure your code meets quality standards. To run those checks manually you can run

   ```bash
   make lint
   ```

4. **Testing:** Make sure to write tests for your code if necessary. We use `pytest` heavily in this project. Have a look at the `pyproject.toml` file to see the configurations used and certain markers which you might want to include in your PR. To run tests you can run

   ```bash
   make test
   ```

> The following command will run the entire test suite which might take a while. You can run individual tests by specifying the exact path to the test. For example, `pytest tests/nn/test_gcn.py::test_gcn`, where `test_gcn` is a function within the `test_gcn.py` file.
5. **Push to your branch and open a PR:** Push all your changes to your branch and then a PR. If you used all the linters you might want to clean up the autogenerated files. You can do that by running the following command:

   ```bash
   make clean
   ```

## Continuous Integration

This project heavily uses [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/SauravMaheshkar/hivegraph/actions) for continuous integration.

Everytime you send a Pull Request, your commit will be built and checked against multiple checkers to ensure your code meets the standards of this project.
